After accessing the database with USE database_demo,
I can type the command - CREATE TABLE *table name*.
while creating a table, I need to define the table's schema,
means, which columns I want the table to have and which data type
will a certain column hold. 
it is impossible to create a table with no columns, at least 1 column.

=> CREATE TABLE customers
   (
   id int(11) NULL,
   name varchar(30) NOT NULL,
   city char(3) NOT NULL,
   phone varchar(20) NOT NULL
   );
   
in this example I've created a table "customers", inside that table there are the
following columns:
- id: will contain data of type of int, integers and a limit of notes = 11.
- name: will contain data of type string with a changing length and a max characters of 30.
- city: will contain data of type string with a permanent length of 3 characters.
- phone: will contain data of type string with a changing length and a max characters of 20.

NULL or NOT NULL is for defining what will be the value of the column if nothing will get pass
there, defining NULL is only for a column with data type of INT etc.

Show tables in database:

after using the database with USE *database's name* and creating a table with CREATE TABLE *table's name*
there is a command for showing these tables:

=> SHOW TABLES;

* important thing to note:
it is possible to create a table but in must have a unique name.
if I try to create a table with the same name of an existing table I will get an error from mysql
server:

=> CREATE TABLE customers
   (
   id int(11) NULL,
   name varchar(30) NOT NULL,
   city char(3) NOT NULL,
   phone varchar(20) NOT NULL
   );
=> error 1050(42S01): Table 'customers' already exists

for me to avoid these error I can set a condition while creating a table,
and the command of creating a table will only be executed if the table does not exists:

=> CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS customers
   (
   id int(11) NULL,
   name varchar(30) NOT NULL,
   city char(3) NOT NULL,
   phone varchar(20) NOT NULL
   );
=> Query OK, 0 rows affected, 1 warning (0.00 sec)

Example for using more data types in the creation proccess:

=>   CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS data 
    (
    log_id int(11) NOT NULL,
    title varchar(255) NOT NULL,
=>  description text NOT NULL,
=>  date datetime NOT NULL,
=>  price decimal(10,2) NOT NULL,
=>  showen tinyint(1) NOT NULL
    );

columns:
- description: will contain data of type string with no limit to amount of characters(text).
- date: will contain data of type date(date time).
- price: will contain data of type decimal, float type, 10 is for the limit of notes and 2 is 
  for limit of notes after the dot ( . ).
- showen: will contain data of type boolean, tinyint(1) is for limit the note length to one,
  which will determine if the value is true(1) or false(0).
  
describe a table:

I can ask for mysql server to show the table structure plus the data type of
each column:

=> DESC data;


default value & NOT NULL:

there is a possibility to define a column a default value in case
of adding new records to the table if I will not pass a value to these columns.
the meaning of NOT NULL is if I'm not passing any value to a column when I'm
adding a record the value of that column won't be NULL, but something else
(depending on the given type of that column). for example, I will define a column
which will contain data of type string but I will set the value of that column to
NOT NULL, means, that if nothing will get passed to this coulmn, its value will be 
an empty string and not NULL.

for example, if I will create a table with the CREATE TABLE command and define
the value of a certain column with date type of int as NOT NULL, then add a new record 
and not pass a value to this column, the value of that column will set to 0 as default and
not NULL etc.

mysql server is allowing me to define a column which will not receive a value during
the addition of new record but will receive a default value which I can define.

for example, I will create a table named "suppliers" and I will define some diffrent 
default values so if I will add a new record and not pass any values to these columns,
these columns will receive the default value I've defined.

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS suppliers 
    (
    id int(11) NOT NULL,
=>  sup_name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'not supplied',
    desc_text text NOT NULL,
=>  active_from datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    operative tinyint(1) NOT NULL
    );

in this example I've set the default value of the "sup_name" column to be "not supplied"
if nothing will pass to this column while adding a new record, for the "active_from"
column I've set the default value of CURRENT_TIMESTAMP which means, because it is a 
date type of date, I can set the default value to be the current time(now).

alter table:

mysql server is allowing me to make changes with the structure of my table with
ALTER TABLE command, so after creating the table I can add columns or change some
settings of existing columns or even delete columns.
after creating the table "departments":

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS departments
 (
  id int(11) NOT NULL,
 code char(3) NULL,
 name varchar(255) NOT NULL,
 description text NOT NULL,
 created_at datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
 locator decimal(10,2) NOT NULL
 );
 
changing an existing column:
---------------------------

lets say I want to change the amount of characters the column "code" can contain:

=> ALTER TABLE departments MODIFY code char(5);


adding new column:
-----------------

lets say I want to add a new column and I can also say after which column I want to add that column:

=> ALTER TABLE departments ADD COLUMN phone varchar(255) NOT NULL AFTER name;


deleting a column:
-----------------

=> ALTER TABLE departments DROP COLUMN locator;
